---
layout: post
title: New TI-82 Advanced developements in the TI calculator community
---

Recently I joined the website [TI-Planet][https://tiplanet.org]
website, and by coincidence earlier that day there was [a forum
post][https://tiplanet.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=22200&p=238486#p238486]
on the ability to now load assembly programs into the TI-82 advanced
calculator model.  The community has been working on it for three
years, and now they've finally got it.

For those unfamiliar with this model, as I was upon first hearing
about it, the TI-82 Advanced calculator series is essentially a
modified version of the TI-84 Plus, but that has a test mode LED.
It's mainly being used in France, where it is mandatory by law to have
a test mode LED, and as a software test mode as well.  People quickly
realized that "*Il n'est plus possible d'exécuter des programmes
assembleur, le jeton `Asm(` ayant été retiré du catalogue.*", (It's
not possible to run assembly programs, the `Asm(` token having been
removed from the [program] catalog).

I immediately thought of this idea of software freedom.  Why do we
even bother to attempt to break software restrictions, sometimes going
to great lengths to do so?  It's because we know that these
restrictions are arbitrary and whose sole purpose is to limit our
computing, and by extension, our freedom.

Events like these remind us all that we should fight at all costs for
software freedom.  This is reminiscent of the [Texas Instruments
signing key
controversy][https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_Instruments_signing_key_controversy]
which received significant (by TI community standards) media
attention.  These small victories matter, because they let us get a
glimpse of a liberated computing world.


